=== PAGE 1 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13          Journal of Big Data  
        https://doi.org/10.1186/s40537-025-01352-x                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        METHODOLOGY                                             Open Access       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Intelligent   average    utility pattern    analysis  using               
                                                                                  
        pre-large   concept     in dynamic     stream    data                     
                                                                                  
        Doyoung Kim1†, Seongbin Park1†, Junyoung Park1†, Hanju Kim1†, Seungwan Park1, Myungha Cho1 and Unil Yun1*
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        †Doyoung Kim, Seongbin Park,                                              
                         Abstract                                                 
        Junyoung Park and Hanju Kim                                               
        are first author. Recent studies on high average utility pattern analysis aim to extract patterns from
                         quantitative data considering the pattern length in incremental environments.
        *Correspondence:                                                          
        Unil Yun         However, traditional methods have the limitation that the pattern expansion process
        yunei@sejong.ac.kr is conducted whenever incremental data occur. The pre-large concept is a technique
        1Department of Computer                                                   
                         that addresses this by classifying patterns and leveraging them to reduce re-scan
        Engineering, Sejong University,                                           
        Seoul, Republic of Korea and pattern expansion operations with a re-scan condition. In this paper, a novel
                         approach is proposed for analyzing high average utility patterns leveraging the
                         framework of the pre-large concept with the tight re-scan condition. Specifically,
                         the proposed approach adopts a newly proposed tight re-scan condition combined
                         with effective pattern tree management. This approach manages the occurrence
                         of the pattern expansion process more efficiently than state-of-the-art methods
                         and reduces redundant computations while extracting results through the average
                         utility of each pattern. Comprehensive experiments on real and synthetic datasets
                         demonstrate that the proposed method is superior to other comparison methods
                         regarding runtime and scalability while exhibiting completeness with competitive
                         memory usage. Furthermore, the sensitivity tests indicate that the proposed
                         approach maintains the most stable runtime performance under varying thresholds,
                         and the case study under concept drift tests demonstrates its superior scalability,
                         showing its applicability compared to the state-of-the-art approach.
                         Keywords Data analysis, Intelligent information system, Average utility, Pre-large
                         concept, Re-scan condition                               
                         Introduction                                             
                         As large-scale data continuously expands with real-time information, the demand
                         for intelligent data analysis systems for analyzing insightful knowledge has grown sig-
                         nificantly, such as a knowledge-based visual question answering system [1], a powerful
                         tensor decomposition technique for handling real-world knowledge [2], and a recom-
                         mendation system based on knowledge enhancement techniques [3]. The data analy-
                         sis technique is crucial in extracting valuable insights across various domains, such as
                         detecting objects in rainy weather conditions [4] and providing information analysis to
                         effectively counter threats [5]. Among these data analysis approaches, pattern analy-
                         sis identifies recurring structures within datasets, enabling users to extract practical
                         © The Author(s) 2026. Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International
                         License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate
                         credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material.
                         You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party
                         material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material
                         is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted
                         use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit h t t p : / / c e r a t i v e c o m m o n .s o r g / l i c e n s
                         e s / b y - n c - n d / 4 . 0. /                         

=== PAGE 2 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 2 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                knowledge. One of the established approaches in pattern analysis involves analyzing fre-
                quent patterns. It aims to discover patterns that frequently appear in binary data. Alter-
                native strategies have also been proposed, such as frequent pattern analysis utilizing
                multiple sampling techniques [6], frequent high minimum average utility sequence pat-
                tern analysis [7]. Moreover, advanced pattern analysis approaches have been designed to
                address specific challenges, such as top-k pattern analysis with the sliding window con-
                cept [8] and sequential pattern analysis with the forgetting factor concept [9], also known
                as the decaying factor, to prioritize the recent data stream. In pattern analysis with high
                average utility, various approaches have been proposed to enhance efficiency and accu-
                racy in pattern extraction. These approaches include methods that focus on analyzing
                                                                                  
                high average utility sequential patterns [10], further with a one-off condition [11], and
                analyzing recent high average utility patterns that emphasize more recent data [12].
                Additionally, an approach utilizing a list-based data structure [13] has been developed
                to improve efficiency by reducing memory usage and computational overhead. Further-
                more, multiple minimum utility threshold-based analysis [14] has been explored, allow-
                ing for more flexible pattern analysis. While frequent pattern analysis remains a widely
                utilized approach, it has certain limitations, particularly in binary data where only the
                presence or absence of items is considered. Utility-oriented methods have been intro-
                duced to analyze non-binary information and include additional factors, such as item
                quantity and profit, to address these constraints. By incorporating these elements, util-
                ity-based pattern analysis systems extract patterns contributing to higher overall utility.
                                                                                  
                Several methods have been developed within this framework, each focusing on different
                aspects of utility-based pattern analysis. For example, one study explored a multi-level
                concept [15] to evaluate utility values across multiple hierarchical levels, while another
                addressed unstable negative data [16], where data contains fluctuating or contradictory
                information. Dynamic knowledge environments introduce additional challenges as data
                is continuously inserted, deleted, and modified. Some existing studies address deleted
                information while maintaining knowledge relevance [17], others focus on efficiently
                processing newly added data with sliding window strategy [18], and additional work
                explore strategies based on multiple utility thresholds [19]. Recently, OIP-Miner [9]
                applies a forgetting factor to account for the temporal significance in analyzing sequence
                data with one-off conditions, yet it focuses on the sequence of data rather than utility-
                oriented aspects. One major limitation of utility-oriented data analysis is its sensitivity
                                                                                  
                to pattern length. To mitigate this issue, average utility-based pattern analysis systems
                have been introduced as an alternative approach. Instead of relying solely on total util-
                ity, this method normalizes utility by dividing it by pattern length, reducing the impact
                of pattern length on utility evaluation. Despite its advantages, most systems in this field
                have been conducted in static environments, where data does not change after the ini-
                tial pattern expansion process. Some methods have been proposed to address average
                utility-oriented analysis within dynamic environments. However, these approaches fail
                to incorporate previously discovered patterns and instead restart the pattern expan-
                sion process from the beginning whenever new data is appended. This limitation arises
                because the information gathered earlier becomes invalid. When additional transactions
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 3 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 3 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                accumulate, the prior information becomes invalid in entire accumulated data. Thus, to
                improve efficiency in dynamic data, the pre-large concept has been introduced as a solu-
                tion to these challenges. By defining upper and lower thresholds, the pre-large-based
                approach categorizes patterns into three groups: pre-large, large, and small. This clas-
                sification system minimizes unnecessary re-scans, allowing for more accurate pattern
                extraction following data updates without requiring the pattern expansion process for
                all scanned data. However, prior pre-large-based approaches retain a critical limitation
                in determining when a re-scan with pattern expansion operations is truly necessary. For
                example, consider a large-scale e-commerce system where millions of past transactions
                have accumulated, and 100 new real-time transactions are added. This small addition
                                                                                  
                of data is highly unlikely to alter the set of result patterns. Nevertheless, prior pre-
                large approaches employ loose re-scan conditions. These conditions can misinterpret
                even such minor updates as re-scan conditions, unnecessarily forcing a costly re-scan
                with pattern expansion operations of the entire data containing millions of records. To
                address this inefficiency, we suggest PIHAUPA (Pre-large Insertion High Average Util-
                ity Pattern Analysis) as an intelligent system for analyzing high average utility patterns
                within dynamic information systems. By incorporating the pre-large concept with the
                novel tight re-scan condition, PIHAUPA introduces a refined re-scan condition that sig-
                nificantly reduces redundant pattern expansion operations in dynamic environments.
                This capability for efficient incremental processing is essential in numerous real-world
                applications. One practical example is social media data analysis, where vast amounts
                                                                                  
                of user-generated content are continuously created. The ability to analyze social data
                in real-time provides valuable insights into emerging trends, enabling businesses and
                content creators to respond quickly to shifting user preferences. Given the need to effi-
                ciently process small-scale data insertions, PIHAUPA is suitable for real-world dynamic
                information. By minimizing redundant pattern expansion operations with the proposed
                tight re-scan condition, PIHAUPA enhances the efficiency of analyzing evolving datasets
                while maintaining accurate pattern extraction. To our knowledge, this is the first study
                to introduce a tight re-scan condition within pre-large concept for list-based high aver-
                age utility pattern analysis in incremental environments. The key contributions of this
                research are summarized as follows:                               
                                                                                  
                 1. An intelligent system is introduced to analyze high average utility patterns from
                   dynamic data within stream environments. This approach leverages the pre-large
                   concept with a novel re-scan condition to minimize unnecessary re-scan processes by
                   managing previously extracted pre-large and large patterns.    
                 2. A tight re-scan condition is designed to optimize high average utility pattern
                   analysis by minimizing redundant pattern expansion operations while ensuring no
                   loss. Moreover, advanced utility-based data structures and pattern classification
                   techniques effectively manage pre-large and large patterns, enhancing computational
                                                                                  
                   performance.                                                   
                 3. Comprehensive evaluations are performed using real and synthetic datasets to
                   assess the performance of the proposed intelligent system. The experimental results
                   demonstrate superior runtime with scalability and sensitivity to comparison methods
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 4 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 4 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                   while exhibiting completeness and competitive memory usage, indicating the
                   effectiveness of the tight re-scan condition. Moreover, its performance under concept
                   drift tests further shows the practical applicability of the proposed approach.
                The following sections in this paper are described as follows. In Sect. "Related work",
                related works for the proposed algorithm are introduced. Section "High utility pattern
                                                                                  
                analysis" introduces a detailed description of the entire procedure for the proposed
                method included in the analysis of the algorithm and complexity. Section "High aver-
                age utility pattern analysis" provides the analysis of comprehensive experiments with
                other comparison methods while exhibiting the accuracy of the proposed method. In
                Sect. "Pattern analysis with pre-large concept", the conclusion of the proposed approach
                is presented.                                                     
                                                                                  
                Related work                                                      
                This section introduces closely related studies to the proposed method. The proposed
                method, PIHAUPA, is an average utility-based framework that extracts patterns leverag-
                ing the pre-large concept. Thus, we introduce related works on high utility pattern anal-
                                                                                  
                ysis and high average utility analysis and pattern analysis with pre-large concept. Table 1
                summarizes related works associated with our proposed method, PIHAUPA. Tasks are
                categorized into HAUP (High Average Utility Pattern), HUP (High Utility Pattern), and
                HUSP (High Utility Sequential Pattern).                           
                                                                                  
                Table 1 Overview of previous research                             
                Algorithm Task Base Pre-large Dynamic Notes                       
                           structure methods Insertion                            
                IMHAUI HAUP Tree   No    Yes   Requires excessive runtime to validate the
                [36]                           candidate item sets.               
                PRE-HAUIMI HAUP List Yes Yes   Relies on AUUB, a loose upper bound.
                [41]               (Loose)                                        
                LIMHAUP HAUP List  No    Yes   Requires costly pattern expansion process
                [37]                           whenever new data arrive.          
                SHAUPM HAUP List   No    Yes   Leverages the sliding window concept to
                [38]                           analyze a portion of the data.     
                IIMHAUP HAUP Indexed-List No Yes Requires costly pattern expansion process
                [39]                           whenever new data arrive.          
                PIHAUPA HAUP List  Yes   Yes   Leverages the pre-large concept with
                (Proposed)         (Tight)     a tight re-scan condition, considering
                                               maximum utility.                   
                PRE-HUI HUP Non-specify Yes Yes Requires high complexity in candidate
                [44]               (Loose)     pattern generation and management. 
                PIHUP  HUP Tree    Yes   Yes   Requires an additional scan to validate
                [45]               (Loose)     large patterns.                    
                PIHUPM HUP List    Yes   Yes   Leverages the pre-large concept but does
                [49]               (Loose)     not analyze high average utility patterns.
                UMPD   HUP List    Yes   No    Operates in data deletion environments
                [50]               (Loose)     and does not analyze high average utility
                                               patterns.                          
                PULM   HUP List    Yes   Yes   Operates in data modification environ-
                [51]               (Loose)     ments but does not analyze high average
                                               utility patterns.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 5 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 5 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                High utility pattern analysis                                     
                                                                                  
                Previous frequent pattern analysis methods have suffered from a major limitation. They
                do not account for the quantity of each item. This limitation led to the introduction of
                high utility pattern analysis [20]. By leveraging the anti-monotone property, frequent
                pattern analysis improves efficiency through the reduction of the search space [21].
                However, utility-based methods do not naturally satisfy this property. Therefore, over-
                estimated utilities, such as the transaction weighted utility [22], are required to be intro-
                duced to enable the pruning of unpromising patterns below a user-defined threshold.
                HUI-Miner [22] introduced a list-based structure that eliminates the need for candidate
                pattern generation with the concept of remaining utility, significantly improving perfor-
                                                                                  
                mance over previous methods. Following this, several utility pattern analysis methods
                have expanded on the advantages of list structures. LIHUP [23] performs pattern analy-
                sis with a single data scan in dynamic information systems using a list-based data struc-
                ture. IIHUM [24], in contrast, utilizes an indexed list-based structure, enabling more
                efficient pattern expansion by eliminating unnecessary item comparisons. While list
                structures require extensive comparisons for pattern combinations, IIHUM enhances
                efficiency by reducing this overhead. Various methods have also been proposed for high
                utility pattern analysis in stream environments. IncDEFIM [25] addresses a key limita-
                tion of traditional IHUM approaches, which struggle with varying internal utilities of
                items. Incorporating data projection and transaction merging reduces the computa-
                tional cost of data scans. Additionally, it leverages two tight upper bounds, local utility
                and sub-tree utility, to efficiently prune unpromising patterns. ITHUI [26] is designed to
                                                                                  
                extract the top-k patterns from dynamic information systems. It leverages a list-based
                data structure and requires only a single data scan. ILTFU-Miner [27] is also one of the
                utility-driven pattern analysis methods. The method utilizes the fuzzy theory with tem-
                poral property. ILDHUP [28] employs a DUI-list, an indexed list structure, and intro-
                duces a decaying factor to decrease the importance of older data gradually. By applying
                the concepts of the sliding window and time fading, RHUPS [29] analyzes the latest
                meaningful patterns. The algorithm relies on a list-based structure to manage this anal-
                ysis. Moreover, DSHUP [30] considers the arrival time of data by applying a decaying
                factor, which assigns lower importance to older data. It also reduces the burden of accu-
                mulated data using a sliding window approach. However, high utility pattern analysis still
                suffers from a fundamental bias, which is the total utility of a pattern tends to increase
                                                                                  
                with its length. This bias makes longer patterns inherently more likely to be extracted
                than shorter ones. Moreover, the use of a sliding window restricts the analysis to the cur-
                rent window, preventing the capture of long-term patterns. To overcome this issue, the
                high average utility pattern analysis was introduced.             
                                                                                  
                High average utility pattern analysis                             
                Average utility analysis [31] evaluates patterns by dividing their utility by length. This
                approach mitigates the influence of pattern length and provides a fairer alternative to
                additive-based utility pattern analysis. However, high average utility pattern analysis
                fails to satisfy the anti-monotone property, requiring upper bound values to reduce the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 6 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 6 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                search space. The first such measure, UB, was introduced in TPAU [32], allowing for
                the pruning of super patterns when the UB of each pattern falls below the threshold.
                However, since TPAU follows an Apriori-like approach, it requires extensive data scan-
                ning and candidate generation, prompting the development of alternative approaches.
                HAUI-tree reduces data scans by managing information in a tree structure, while MHAI
                [33] improves efficiency using a list structure that processes pattern expansion results
                in just two scans. LMHAUP [34] further optimizes performance with the TA-list, an
                improved list structure. To enhance pruning efficiency beyond UB, TUB-HAUPM [35]
                introduces two strict upper bounds, significantly reducing weak candidate patterns.
                However, these methods are not well-suited for incremental data, where efficient han-
                                                                                  
                dling of new transactions is essential. IMHAUI [36] utilizes a tree-based pattern growth
                method to discover HAUPs with minimum re-scan of incremental data. LIMHAUP [37]
                adopts a list structure, maintaining item information efficiently by scanning newly added
                transactions, outperforming tree-based methods in incremental environments. Given
                its advantages, list-based methods have been widely explored. SHAUPM [38] employs a
                SHAUP-list structure to store recent batch information using a sliding window approach,
                improving performance via a pruning strategy based on remaining utility. Meanwhile,
                IIMHAIUP [39] introduces the HAUI-list structure, efficiently analyzing HAUPs in
                environments where data are inserted continuously and requires expeditious analysis.
                However, these approaches still suffer from frequent re-scan processes or pattern expan-
                sion operations whenever new dynamic data are inserted, leading to high computational
                                                                                  
                cost in incremental data environments. To address this issue, the proposed method uti-
                lizes the pre-large concept to analyze HAUPs in incremental data to reduce the re-scan
                process with pattern expansion operations with a tight re-scan condition.
                                                                                  
                Pattern analysis with pre-large concept                           
                Dynamic data continuously evolves as data are inserted, modified, and deleted in real
                time. To manage these variations efficiently, diverse studies with the pre-large con-
                cept have been explored, high average utility pattern analysis predicated on the Apriori
                method and the pre-large concept [40], high average utility pattern analysis relying on
                the pre-large concept, incorporating the original re-scan condition [41], deletion-based
                pattern analysis [42], and lead partial maximal utility upper bound techniques [43].
                The pre-large concept utilizes two thresholds: an upper threshold ratio S u and a lower
                                                                                  
                threshold ratio S l, classifying patterns into small, pre-large, and large categories. Each
                threshold is multiplied by the total utilities of all the scanned data, and the minimum
                utility upper threshold, minutil u, and minimum utility lower threshold, minutil l, are
                calculated. Patterns with a utility no less than minutil u are considered large patterns,
                and pre-large patterns denote their utility between minutil u and minutil l. Small pat-
                terns have utility values below minutil l, and pre-large patterns are considered poten-
                tially large patterns depending on data updates, reducing unnecessary pattern expansion
                operations. Several pre-large-based methods have been developed for different scenar-
                ios. PRE-HUI [44] and PIHUP [45] handle transaction insertions, while HUIPRED [46]
                and PRE-HUI-Del [47] focus on transaction deletions. PIHUP-MOD [48] extends this
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 7 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 7 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Table 2 Example of transactional database                         
                             TID          Transaction (Item: IU) MU               
                DB                                                                
                  0                                                               
                              T1          (A: 2), (B: 1), (C: 3) 5                
                              T2          (C: 1), (D: 2)       6                  
                              T3          (A: 6), (B: 1), (C: 4), (E: 5) 30       
                              T4          (A: 4), (B: 4), (E: 3) 20               
                              T5          (B: 1), (E: 2), (F: 2) 12               
                DB                                                                
                 1                                                                
                              T6          (A: 3), (F: 3)       12                 
                              T7          (C: 2), (E: 2)       12                 
                DB                                                                
                 2                                                                
                              T8          (B: 5), (C: 1), (D: 3), (E: 2) 25       
                              T9          (A: 1), (B: 3), (D: 1) 15               
                Table 3 Example of external utility of each item                  
                Item      A      B       C       D       E       F                
                EU        2      5       1       3       6       4                
                concept to modification scenarios, extracting HUPs in dynamic data. However, PIHUP
                relies on a tree structure, requiring candidate pattern generation and using overesti-
                mated utility values, making extracted large patterns uncertain as results. To overcome
                these limitations, PIHUPM [49] introduces a list-based structure that allows direct util-
                ity calculation without additional data scans and improves pattern classification effi-
                ciency. UMPD [50] and PULM [51] discover HUPs within stream environments in
                which data are deleted and modified, respectively. Pre-HUSPM [52] is a sequence pat-
                tern analysis based on pre-large, which extracts the result by minimizing the frequency
                of the re-scan process from an incremental environment. However, utility-driven pat-
                tern analysis methods utilizing the pre-large framework have limitations, including the
                impact of pattern length and the frequency of re-scan processes. To address these issues,
                PIHAUPA is proposed to efficiently extract HUAPs in incremental data environments.
                The proposed strategy strengthens the re-scan conditions, thereby reducing unnecessary
                re-scans with pattern expansion operations and improving overall efficiency compared
                to the aforementioned methods.                                    
                Pre-large-based high average utility pattern analysis on dynamic systems
                Preliminaries                                                     
                In this section, fundamental definitions used within the pre-large concept for the
                analysis of HAUPs are explained. An incremental databatabase DB is composed of
                numerous transactions. All transactions are uniquely identified by their transaction
                ID, TID. Each transaction, T n, contains a set of distinct items, formally expressed as
                T n = { i 1 ,i 2 ,i 3 , ··· ,i m } . The entire database, DB, is the collection of these transac-
                tions: DB = { T 1 ,T 2 ,T 3 , ··· ,T n } . Each transaction T n is a subset of the universal set
                of all items, I. Tables 2 and 3 exhibit examples of an incremental database and exter-
                nal utilities. The original database is denoted as DB 0, while DB 1 and DB 2 refer to
                incremental updates. Previous studies [38, 39] have introduced the following defini-
                tions. Let T q be a transaction, U(i p , T q ) represents the utility associated with an
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 8 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 8 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                item i p in T q. It is obtained by the product of its internal utility IU i p , T q and its
                external utility EU(i p ). Let P be a pattern, which is defined as a set of ( items ( )P I).
                                                               ⊆                  
                U(P, T q ) represents the cumulative utility of pattern P with respect to transactionT q.
                It is determined through the aggregation of the utility of its constituent items, as pre-
                sented: U(P,T q )= P                                              
                               ⊆                                                  
                                Tq∧ ip∈ P U i p , T q . Finally, the database-wide utility of
                P is calculated as U∑(P)= Tq∈ DB (                                
                                       ∧                                          
                                        P                                         
                                         ⊆                                        
                                          Tq )U(P,T q ). The total utility of all items
                presented in T q is termed its∑ transaction utility, TU(T q ). It is derived by summing
                the utilities of all its constituent items: TU(T q )= ip∈ Tq U i p , T q . To consider
                pattern length, the average utility of P in T q, denot∑ed as AU( (P, T q ), ) is obtained by
                dividing the pattern utility by its length: AU(P,T q )= ip∈ P ∧ P ⊆ P Tq
                                                          U(ip,T                  
                                                              q                   
                                                              )                   
                                                               . For              
                                                  ∑     | |                       
                all transactions containing P, the total average utility of P, referred to as AU(P), is
                computed as follows: AU(P)= P                                     
                                      ⊆                                           
                                       Tq∧ Tq∈ DB AU(P,T q ). The total utility of the
                database, U(DB), is first calcula∑ted by summing transaction utilities of all transac-
                tions in DB: U(DB)= Tq∈ DB TU(T q ). Based on this total utility, the minimum
                utility threshold, denoted ∑as minutil, is then defined using a user-specified propor-
                tion δ: minUtil=δ U(DB). Accordingly, A pattern P is categorized as a HAUP
                             ×                                                    
                if the average utility of P adherers to the condition AU(P) minutil. The maxi-
                                                     ≥                            
                mum utility of T q, denoted as MU(T q ), represents the highest utility among all items
                in T q: MU(T q )=max ip∈ Tq U(i p ,T q ). The Average Utility Upper Bound, AUUB,
                for P represents the sum of the maximum utilities of all transactions containing P. It
                is computed as follows: AUUB(P)= P                                
                                         ⊆                                        
                                          Tq∧ Tq∈ DB MU(T q ). Let P be a pattern 
                in T q whose items are sorted by their ∑AUUB values in ascending order, resulting in
                the ordered sequence P = { i 1 ,i 2 ,... ,i p } . The Maximal Remaining item Utility,
                MRU, of P refers to the highest utility among items appearing after i p, and calcu-
                lated as follows: MRU(P,T q )=max U(i k ,T q ) i p i k i k T q . The Remain-
                                       {     | ≺   ∧  ∈  }                        
                ing item Number, RN, of P in T q, is denoted as RN(P, T q ), indicates the count of
                items appearing after P in T q, where the transaction is sorted in ascending order of
                AUUB: RN(P,T q )=n( ii P i T q ). The Maximal Remaining item Num- 
                                { | ≻ ∧ ∈  }                                      
                ber, MRN, expressed as MRN(P), is the highest RN across all transactions contain-
                ing P: MRN(P)=max RN(P,T q ) T q DB P T q . The Maximum Average   
                               {      |  ∈   ∧  ⊆  }                              
                Upper bound, MAU, of P within T q is computed based on the following three cases to
                refine pruning strategies.                                        
                             U(P,Tq)+(M P R + N M (P R ) N× (P M ) RU(P,Tq)) MRU(P,Tq)>AU(P,Tq)
                                  | |                                             
                   MAU(P,Tq)=                                                    
                             U(P,Tq) | + P M 0| + R 1 U(P,Tq) 0<MR M U R ( U P, ( T P q , ) T ≤ q) A = U 0 (P,Tq) (1)
                                                                               
                The MAU of P across all scanned transactions is computed as follows:
                MAU(P)=   P                                                       
                          ⊆                                                       
                            Tq∈ DB MAU(P,T q ). The following definitions introduce funda-
                mental definit∑ions utilized in previous approaches [40, 41], handling average utility of
                each pattern with the pre-large concept.                          
                Definition 1 (Pattern Classification) Patterns in a database DB are divided into three
                categories utilizing two thresholds: S u (upper threshold ratio) and S l (lower threshold

=== PAGE 9 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 9 of 34  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                ratio), where S l <S u. Based on these thresholds, an arbitrary pattern P is classified into
                one of the following types: large, pre-large, or small.           
                   Large:AU(P) TU(DB) S                                           
                                       u                        (2)               
                             ≥      ×                                             
                   Pre large:TU(DB) S >AU(P) TU(DB) S                             
                                    u                l          (3)               
                      −          ×         ≥       ×                              
                   Small:TU(DB) S >AU(P)                                          
                                l                               (4)               
                              ×                                                   
                For example, suppose that the average utility of an arbitrary patterns X and Y is calcu-
                lated as 25 and 15, and the S u and S l is denoted as 20 and 10, respectively. Pattern X is
                regarded as a large pattern, and pattern Y is considered a pre-large pattern.
                Definition 2 (Original Re-Scan Condition) When a newly inserted database has the
                potential to enlarge an existing small pattern into a large pattern, a re-scan is required. Let
                ID represent the set of transactions appended after the latest re-scan, and OD denote
                the set of transactions processed in the previous re-scan, the original re-scan condition
                is expressed as follows:                                          
                           S  S                                                   
                   TU(ID)  u − l TU(OD)                                           
                                                                (5)               
                         ≥ 1 S  ×                                                 
                              u                                                   
                            −                                                     
                The method utilizing the condition scans all accumulated databases if the re-scan condi-
                tion is satisfied. For example, suppose that TU(ID) and TU(OD) are 15 and 30, and
                S u and S l are 0.5 and 0.3, respectively. In this case, since TU(ID) is no less than 12,
                the re-scan condition is satisfied, and the re-scan process for all databases is performed.
                Table 4 summarizes the principal symbols used in Sect. "High utility pattern analysis".
                Table 4 Summary of principal symbols                              
                Symbol Meaning                 Level Range                        
                DB   An incremental database, DB=                                 
                                    {                                             
                                    T1,T2,T3,                                     
                                          ···                                     
                                            ,Tn                                   
                                             }                                    
                                                     Global                       
                I    A set of unique items in DB, I=                              
                                    {                                             
                                     i1,i2,i3,                                    
                                         ···                                      
                                           ,im                                    
                                             }                                    
                                                     Global                       
                ID   A set of transactions appended after the latest re-scan Global
                OD   A set of transactions processed in the previous re-scan Database Global
                TU(DBS)um of transaction utility in DB Construction               
                Su, Sl Upper and lower threshold ratios Analysis                  
                Tq   An arbitrary transaction in DB, Tq I Global                  
                                     ⊆                                            
                TU(Tq)Transaction utility of Tq      Construction                 
                MU(Tq)Maximum utility of Tq          Construction/Restructuring   
                RN(P, TRqe)maining item number of P in Tq Transaction Restructuring
                MRU(P,MTaqx)imal remaining item utility of P in Tq Restructuring/Analysis
                AU(P, TAqv)erage utility of P inTq   Analysis                     
                MAU(PM,Taqxi)mum average upper bound of P in Tq Analysis          
                P    An arbitrary pattern in DB,P I  Construction                 
                                   ⊆                                              
                U(P) Total utility of P inDB         Construction                 
                AUUB(PAv)erage utility upper bound of P Pattern Construction/Restructuring
                MRN(PM)aximal remaining item number of P Restructuring/Analysis   
                AU(P) Total average utilit of P      Analysis                     
                MAU(PM)aximum average upper bound of P Analysis                   

=== PAGE 10 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 10 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 1 Overall architecture of PIHAUPA                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 2 The structure of PIHAUP-List                               
                Overall procedure of pre-large-based high average utility pattern analysis
                This section presents the general architecture of the proposed PIHAUPA method. The
                                                                                  
                overall process illustration is depicted in Fig. 1. Initially, for the original data, PIHAUPA
                scans them once to construct the list structures for the individual items and correspond-
                ing transaction information. Next, through the restructuring procedure, PIHAUPA
                arranges the individual item lists in AUUB ascending order to maximize early pruning
                of unpromising patterns. This AUUB ascending order also serves as the criteria for cal-
                culating the MRU and MRN values, which is also performed during this step. Follow-
                ing the restructuring step, PIHAUPA recursively combines k-length patterns to generate
                (k + 1)-patterns, starting with the single-length items. During this phase, the extracted
                pre-large and large patterns are inserted into the pattern tree and pruning strategies
                regarding AUUB and MAU are exploited to reduce the search space. Once the pattern
                tree is built completely, the list structures are erased from memory to optimize space.
                                                                                  
                Thereafter, when new data arrive, PIHAUPA tests the tight re-scan condition to deter-
                mine whether a data re-scan is necessary. If the condition is true, the current pattern
                tree is destroyed, and the above procedures are performed for the entire data reflecting
                the new records. If not, the current pattern tree is updated in accordance with the new
                records. Specifically, the managed utility values are updated by reflecting the values in
                the inserted data. Finally, in order to extract large patterns, PIHAUPA traverses the pat-
                tern tree to compare the AU values with the upper threshold, after which the result set
                is reported to the user.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 11 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 11 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Construction process of global data structure                     
                                                                                  
                This section explains the data structure used in PIHAUPA, PIHAUP-List, and the con-
                struction procedure for the global PIHAUP-List. The global PIHAUP-List stores infor-
                mation regarding patterns with 1-length and is constructed by performing a single scan
                of the data. For efficiency, this global list is removed from memory after the pattern
                expansion procedure and constructed again when the tight rescan condition for addi-
                tional data is satisfied. Lists for patterns with 2-length or more are built as conditional
                lists during the pattern expansion procedure by combining existing list nodes in a DFS
                manner and are removed after use. A node stores a summary of the characteristics of a
                pattern, which includes sumU, the utility of a pattern in the entire data; and MRN, the
                                                                                  
                maximum number of combinable items at the current level. The AUUB field of each
                pattern is included for illustrative purposes, while it is omitted in the implementation
                for efficiency. It also manages the information of transactions where a pattern appeared,
                represented in entry units, and is composed of the following: TID; U, the pattern util-
                ity in the transaction; and MRU, the maximal remaining utility a pattern can be com-
                bined with in the transaction. The structure of the PIHAUP-List is displayed in Fig. 2.
                Nodes in the global PIHAUP-List are arranged in AUUB ascending order for pattern
                expansion efficiency. This is to cause patterns with low AUUB values to be extended
                early, and since patterns that are extended early are combined with other patterns the
                most, pruning can be maximized if patterns with low AUUB values are processed first.
                However, since PIHAUPA is a single-scan-based method that operates in incremental
                environments, nodes cannot be sorted during the initial data structure construction
                                                                                  
                procedure. Also, values that require the sorting order, MRN and MRU, cannot be cal-
                culated during this step. Therefore, the sorting of nodes and the calculation of MRN
                and MRU values are processed during the restructuring procedure.  
                 The global PIHAUP-List is constructed through the scanning of transactions in order.
                First, MU of the scanned transaction is determined. Next, items in the transaction are
                processed. If the node for the current item does not occur in the global list, a new one
                is generated and added to the list, and the corresponding transaction entry is inserted.
                The sumU of the node is set to the item utility of the transaction. The transaction entry
                is created using the TID and the utility of the item in the transaction. If the node for
                the current item exists in the global list, a transaction entry is inserted in the same way,
                and the sumU value of the node is updated by adding the item utility of the transac-
                                                                                  
                tion. Once this procedure is carried out for the entire data, the global list construction is
                finished.                                                         
                                                                                  
                Example 1 This example represents the construction procedure of the global PIHAUP-
                List through a single scan of Table 2. PIHAUPA first scans T . MU(T ) is calculated as 5
                                                  1    1                          
                and is used to calculate the AUUB of items. For the first item in T , A, since its node does
                                                     1                            
                not occur in PIHAUP-List, a new one is generated and inserted. Here, MU(T ) added to
                                                            1                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 3 Constructed global PIHAUP-List for DB                      
                                    0                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 12 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 12 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                the AUUB value of A, which is 5, and sumU of the list is set to U(A, T ), which is 4. Next,
                                                       1                          
                a transaction entry for T , <T , 4, 0>, is inserted into the node. When scanning item C in
                              1  1                                                
                T , its node already exists in PIHAUP-List. Hence, a new node for C is not generated. The
                 2                                                                
                sumU value of the existing node C is updated, and a transaction entry for T is inserted.
                                                           2                      
                sumU is incremented by U(C, T ), which is 1. As a result, the two values become 4 and 11,
                                  2                                               
                respectively. Additionally, a transaction entry of < T , 1, 0 > is inserted. Once the original
                                             2                                    
                data is scanned and performed, the construction procedure is complete. The fully con-
                structed global PIHAUP-List is shown in Fig. 3.                   
                Restructure process of global data structure                      
                This section explains the process for restructuring the global PIHAUP-List. Restructur-
                ing is done by arranging the global list nodes in ascending order of AUUB and calculating
                the MRU and MRN of the nodes. The reason for arranging the list in AUUB ascending
                order is to maximize pruning during the early stage of pattern expansion, during which
                pattern extension occurs frequently, by allowing patterns with low AUUB values to be
                extended first. Moreover, the MRN and MRU values calculated during the restructur-
                ing procedure are used for calculating MAU during the pattern expansion procedure,
                which is a tight upper bound than AUUB. After sorting the global list in AUUB ascend-
                ing order, it is traversed in reverse order to calculate the MRN and MRU values of nodes.
                During this process, a temporary table consisting of TID, MRU, and MRN is used to
                facilitate calculations. When visiting transaction entries of nodes, the algorithm checks
                if an entry in the temporary table exists that has the same TID value. If it does not exist,
                an entry < T , U(i , T ), 1 > is inserted into the temporary table. Here, i and T are the
                       k  m k                            m   k                    
                current visiting item and TID, respectively. If it exists, the MRU of the entry is arranged
                in the MRU of the transaction entry of the node. Next, the MRN of the temporary table
                entry is compared with the MRN of the node, and the larger value is stored in the MRN
                of the node. Lastly, the MRU value of the temporary table entry is compared with the
                U value in the transaction entry of the node. The larger value is stored in the former,
                and the MRN value of the temporary table entry is increased by 1. Once this process is
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 4 Restructuring global PIHAUP-List with temporary table      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 13 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 13 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                repeated for all nodes in the global list, the restructuring procedure is complete, and the
                data structure is ready for the pattern expansion process.        
                                                                                  
                Example 2 This example shows how the global PIHAUP-List in Fig. 4 is restructured in
                PIHAUPA. PIHAUPA first sorts the global list in ascending order of AUUB, with the fol-
                lowing order of items: D(6) F(12) C(41) A(55) E(62) B(67). Next,  
                                 ≺     ≺     ≺     ≺     ≺                        
                the algorithm calculates the MRN and MRU values of list nodes using a temporary table.
                This procedure can be observed in Fig. 4. First, node B is processed. Since the temporary
                table is currently empty, entries with values < TID, U, 1 > corresponding to all transaction
                entries in node B are inserted into the temporary table. Next, for the first transaction
                entry of node E, since the entry for TID T is contained in the temporary table, the MRU
                                        3                                         
                value of the entry, 5, is arranged in the MRU of the transaction entry. Also, since the MRN
                value 1 in the temporary table entry is greater than the MRN value 0 in node E, the MRN
                of the node is set to 1. Lastly, the MRN of the temporary table entry is incremented by 1,
                and its MRU value is updated to 30 since the previous value of 5 is less than the U value of
                30. Repeating this process for all global list nodes completes the restructuring procedure.
                Analysis of high average utility patterns based on pre-large concept
                This section explains how PIHAUPA analyzes HAUPs using the pre-large approach.
                For efficiency of the pattern expansion process, PIHAUPA uses a pattern expansion
                based on DFS and a pruning technique employing a tight upper bound of the AU value
                called MAU. The algorithm traverses the PIHAUP-List and calculates the AU value of
                patterns. If the value is equal to or bigger than minutil l, the pattern is a large or pre-
                                                                                  
                large pattern and is added to the pattern tree. When a pattern is inserted into the pat-
                tern tree, its items are arranged in descending order of AUUB, and this is to increase
                the compactness of the tree by placing items that are more likely to appear frequently
                at the top. Also, the utility value is stored instead of AU for trivial accumulation when
                new data arrives. Next, the MAU value of the pattern is calculated to check whether it
                is expandable or not. If a pattern is extendable, or, in other words, its MAU value is no
                less than minutil l, then a conditional PIHAUP-List with the corresponding pattern as
                a prefix is constructed, and the pattern expansion process is performed recursively in a
                DFS fashion using conditional lists. Conditional PIHAUP-Lists are created by combining
                the node of the prefix pattern with nodes that occur after the prefix node in the current
                list. When creating a node for a conditional list, transaction entries of the prefix pattern
                                                                                  
                node and the node of the pattern to be combined with are compared to discover entries
                with the equal TID. For the transaction entries of the created node, the U field is set as
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 5 The pattern expansion procedure with pruning techniques    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 14 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 14 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                the summation of the U values of the two transaction entries subtract the U value of the
                transaction entry of the common prefix pattern, and the MRU field is set as the larger
                MRU value of the two transaction entries. Next, the sumU field of the node is set as the
                summation of the U values of its transaction entries. Lastly, the MRN field is set to the
                lower MRN value of the two nodes being combined. Once all patterns are visited and
                extended, a complete set of large and pre-large patterns is stored in the pattern tree. By
                traversing the pattern tree, HAUPs are extracted and returned to the user.
                                                                                  
                Example 3 This example illustrates the pattern expansion procedure of PIHAUPA.
                Assuming the upper and lower threshold are given as 23% and 10%, minutil u and
                minutil l are set as 32.43 and 14.1, respectively. This example shows the pattern expan-
                sion procedure starting from node C, illustrated in Fig. 5; however, the other nodes are
                                                                                  
                also processed in the same manner. PIHAUPA first calculates AU value of pattern C. Since
                AU(C)=8<minUtil l, pattern C is not appended into the pattern tree. On the other
                hand, its MAU value is calculated as MAU(C)= 3+15 +0+ 4+90 =28, and since it
                                               4      4                           
                is no less than minutil l, pattern C is selected as a prefix and pattern expansion takes
                place. To create the conditional PIHAUP-List for pattern C, node C is combined with the
                nodes that appear after it, nodes A, E, and B. In the case of node A, the common transac-
                tion entries are T 1 and T 3, and therefore transaction entries <T 1, 7, 5> and <T 3, 16, 30>
                are inserted into node CA. Accordingly, the sumU field of node CA is configured as 23.
                Lastly, the MRN value of the node is set as the lower MRN value of the nodes that are
                combined, 2. Node C is then combined with node E in a similar manner to create node
                CE. This process is echoed to combine nodes CA and CE. Note that the common prefix
                pattern utility of 4 for T is subtracted from the calculation of U. For node CAE, since
                              3                                                   
                AU(CAE)=15.333 minutil l, pattern CAE is inserted into the pattern tree. Patterns
                             ≥                                                    
                CE and CAE are not extended due to MAU pruning. After all patterns are processed
                this way, the pattern tree construction is complete, and pre-large and large patterns are
                extracted through traversal of the pattern tree.                  
                Update process with re-scan condition                             
                In this section, a description of how PIHAUPA handles environments where data inser-
                tions continue to occur is introduced. The following definition describes a re-scan con-
                dition that is tighter than the original re-scan condition, which allows the proposed
                PIHAUPA to extract results by optimizing the re-scan process for all the accumulated
                data.                                                             
                                                                                  
                Definition 3 (Tight Re-Scan Condition). The tight re-scan condition indicates whether a
                small pattern from the previous re-scan can transition into a large pattern with the inser-
                tion of newly scanned data. Contrary to the traditional definition utilized in prior meth-
                ods, the tight re-scan condition leverages the aggregate MU across the scanned set of
                transactions, as the maximum average utility of a pattern in a transaction cannot exceed
                the MU value. The refined re-scan condition is formulated as follows:
                                      TU(ID)                                      
                   MU(ID)   (S  S )/(1        S )  TU(OD)                         
                         ≥   u − l  − MU(ID) × u ×              (6)               
                           {                    }                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 15 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 15 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                If the MU for ID satisfies the tight re-scan condition, it means that small patterns
                contained in the previously scanned data have the potential to become large patterns.
                Therefore, the entire data including ID and OD is scanned again to ensure the accurate
                extraction of result patterns and prevent any pattern loss. Moreover, when the re-scan
                condition is fulfilled, the pattern tree is initialized and is reconstructed for the infor-
                mation of the re-scan process. The newly constructed pattern tree is utilized until the
                re-scan condition is fulfilled from the following data insertions. Conversely, if this con-
                dition is not met, Lemma 1 guarantees that no small pattern can become a large pat-
                tern, thus preventing pattern loss without performing a costly re-scan. The fundamental
                theoretical advantage of this proposed tight re-scan condition lies in its utilization of a
                                                                                  
                more stringent mathematical boundary compared to the original re-scan condition used
                in prior methods. The original condition evaluates the possibility of a re-scan based on
                the TU(ID) of the new data. This value loosely overestimates the potential for a small
                pattern to transition into a large pattern. In contrast, the proposed condition employs
                MU(ID). The MU(ID) value serves as a much tighter theoretical upper bound on
                the largest average utility values that a pattern can gain from ID. Since the relationship
                MU(ID)  TU(ID) is always satisfied, the use of MU(ID) provides a tighter cri-
                       ≤                                                          
                terion than TU(ID). This theoretical superiority, which guarantees that the proposed
                method invokes a re-scan no more frequently than methods using the original condition,
                is formally demonstrated in Lemma 2.                              
                Lemma 1 If an arbitrary pattern P that was a small pattern in OD can become a large
                pattern in the entire data after the incremental data is added, OD ID, then the tight
                                                      ∪                           
                re-scan condition must be true.                                   
                                                                                  
                Proof Assume that all the data in the previous re-scan process, those after the previ-
                ous re-scan process, and those from the original data to the recently scanned incremen-
                tal data are described as OD, ID, and OD ID=DB, respectively. The transaction
                                          ∪                                       
                utilities of each data are described as TU(OD), TU(ID), and TU(DB), respectively.
                For an arbitrary pattern P, the average utilities of each data are defined as AU(P,OD),
                AU(P,ID), and AU(P,DB), respectively. Moreover, since AU(P,DB) is configured
                as the sum of average utilities of P in OD and ID, the AU(P,DB) is computed as
                follows: AU(P,DB)=AU(P,OD)+AU (P,ID). The proof first establishes that if
                the tight re-scan condition is false, the small pattern cannot become the large pattern.
                Assume the tight re-scan condition according to Definition 5 is false. Therefore, the fol-
                lowing equation holds:                                            
                                     TU(ID)                                       
                   MU(ID)<  (S                                                    
                             u −                                                  
                               S l)/(1                                            
                                    − MU(ID) ×                                    
                                             S                                    
                                                ×                                 
                                                  TU(OD)                          
                          {(                 u)}                                  
                                      TU(ID) S                                    
                          ⇒ MU(ID) × 1 − MU(I × D) u <(S u − S l) × TU(OD) (7)    
                                   (           )                                  
                            MU(ID) S  TU(ID)<S  TU(OD) S  TU(OD)                  
                                   u         u         l                          
                          ⇒      −  ×         ×      −  ×                         
                            S  TU(OD)+MU(ID)<S  (TU(OD)+TU(ID))                   
                             l               u                                    
                          ⇒  ×                ×                                   
                Furthermore, since pattern P is small in OD, it is expressed as follows by Definition 3.
                   AU(P, OD)<S TU(OD)                                             
                             l                                  (8)               
                              ×                                                   

=== PAGE 16 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 16 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Moreover, the maximum utility of P obtained in ID cannot exceed the sum of the max-
                imum utility of each transaction contained in ID. That is, the following holds.
                   AU(P, ID) MU(ID)                                               
                                                                (9)               
                          ≤                                                       
                Equations (8) and (9) can be summarized as follows.               
                   AU(P, DB)=AU(P,OD)+AU (P,ID)<S TU(OD)+MU (ID)                  
                                              l                 (10)              
                                               ×                                  
                Using Eqs. (7) and (10), the following equation is derived:       
                   AU(P, DB)<S  TU(DB)                                            
                             u                                  (11)              
                              ×                                                   
                Therefore, when the tight re-scan condition is false, no small pattern can become large.
                By contraposition, if a small pattern can become a large pattern, the tight re-scan condi-
                tion is always true, which guarantees that no pattern loss occurs∎.
                Lemma 2 The number of occurrences for the pattern expansion process in the proposed
                method utilizing the tight re-scan condition is always no greater than that of the occur-
                rences in the existing method utilizing the original re-scan condition.
                Proof Suppose that the total utilities in data derived after the previous re-scan process
                and that in data appearing in the previous re-scan process. Let the total pattern expan-
                                                                                  
                sion process occurring in the proposed method that utilizes the tight re-scan condition
                be called N PM, and let that pattern expansion process occurring in the existing method
                that utilizes the original re-scan condition be called N EM. The two methods perform
                scan operations on the original data. However, for data insertions that occur afterward,
                the re-scan and pattern expansion processes depend on whether the re-scan condition is
                fulfilled. The following inequalities are denoted to exhibit that the terms to the right of the
                inequalities match the tight and original re-scan conditions, respectively.
                                                                                  
                              TU(ID)                                              
                   MU(ID)  (1       S ) (S S ) TU(OD)                             
                         ×  − MU(ID) u ≥ u − l ×                (12)              
                   TU(ID) (1 S ) (S  S ) TU(OD)                                   
                              u    u  l                         (13)              
                         ×  −   ≥   −  ×                                          
                Equation (12) represents the tight re-scan condition, which is an algebraic rearrange-
                ment of the definition provided in Eq. (6), while Eq. (5) shows the original re-scan
                condition. Given that the right-hand sides of both inequalities are identical, a smaller
                value on the left-hand side indicates a stricter re-scan condition. Since the relation
                MU(ID)  TU(ID) is always satisfied, the left sides of the two conditions are com-
                       ≤                                                          
                pared as follows.                                                 
                              TU(ID)                                              
                   MU(ID)  (1       S )=MU(ID) TU(ID) S                           
                         ×  − MU(ID) u       −      ×  u        (14)              
                           TU(ID)                                                 
                   U(ID)                                                          
                       ×                                                          
                        (1                                                        
                          − M                                                     
                               U(ID)S u)                                          
                                     ≤                                            
                                      TU(ID)                                      
                                           −                                      
                                            TU(ID)                                
                                                 ×                                
                                                  S u=TU(ID)                      
                                                         ×                        
                                                           (1                     
                                                            −                     
                                                             S u) (15)            
                Accordingly, it is verified that the value of the left term for the tight re-scan condition is
                no greater than that of the original re-scan condition. Therefore, depending on the upper
                threshold value, S u, a situation occurs where the original re-scan condition satisfies the

=== PAGE 17 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 17 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 6 Comparison of the process with tight and original re-scan after scanning DB
                                                     1                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 7 Update process of pattern tree                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Table 5 Comparison of patterns with tight and original re-scan conditions
                Large and pre-large patterns of DB 0                              
                Pattern   AE       E        EB       B       CAE                  
                Type      Large    Large    Large    Large   Pre-large            
                AU        34       60       45       35      15.333               
                Pattern variation after scanningDB 1with tight re-scan condition  
                Pattern   AE       E        EB       B       CAE                  
                Type      Pre-large Large   Large    Pre-large Small              
                AU        34       72       45       35      15.333               
                Pattern variation after scanningDB 1with original re-scan condition
                Pattern   E        EB       EBA      EA      EC                   
                Type      Large    Large    Pre-large Pre-large Pre-large         
                AU        72       45       31       34      24                   
                condition, but the tight re-scan condition does not. which leads to N PM N EM. As
                                                           ≤                      
                a result, the proposed method with the tight re-scan condition enables more efficient
                management of the occurrences of the pattern expansion and re-scan processes than the
                method employing the original re-scan condition. ∎                
                Example 4 This example explains the distinction between the tight and the original
                re-scan condition during the processing of incremental data insertion. The incremental
                database DB 1 comprises transactions T 6 and T 7, resulting in TU(DB 1 ) of 32 and a
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 18 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 18 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                MU(DB 1 ) of 24. Under the premise that TU(DB 0 )=141, the evaluation of the tight
                                                                                  
                re-scan condition yields 24< (0.23 0.1)/(1 32 0.23) 141=26.438. The
                                       −     − 24 ×  ×                            
                proposed method determines that{ the comprehensive re-scan is u}nnecessary. As a result,
                the method incorporates the incremental database into the existing pattern tree through
                a scanning process. Fig. 6 represents the pattern tree formed through the tight re-scan
                condition upon completion of the DB 1 scan. Fig. 7 illustrates the process of updating the
                pattern tree. The pattern tree is traversed for each transaction in DB 1. Since U(A)=6,
                pattern A is searched for in the pattern tree, and its utility is updated. Therefore, the utility
                of A stored in the pattern tree is 30 = 24 + 6. Similarly, patterns E and CE also increase
                by 12 and 14, respectively. The updated large and pre-large patterns, obtained using the
                tight re-scan condition subsequent to processing DB 1, are displayed in Table 5. As DB 1
                is inserted. The incorporation of DB 1 necessitates the recalculation of minutil l and
                minutil u values leading to a pattern type transition for specific patterns. Consequently,
                patterns AE and B are reclassified as pre-large patterns, whereas CAE is categorized as
                a small pattern. Contrarily, the right side of Fig. 6 shows the results of the original re-scan
                condition. where the formula is computed as follows: 32> 0 1 .23 0−.2 0 3 .1 × 141=23.805.
                                                     −                            
                Upon satisfying the original re-scan condition, a full scan of the entire dataset (including
                DB 1) was triggered to construct the global PIHAUP-List and pattern tree from scratch.
                Table 5 confirms that the identified large patterns, namely HAUPs, and their corre-
                sponding AU values remain identical across different re-scan conditions.
                Algorithm descriptions of PIHAUPA                                 
                                                                                  
                In this section, a detailed explanation of the algorithms utilized in PIHAUPA is intro-
                duced. Algorithm 1 requires transactional data along with lower and upper threshold
                ratios as input and outputs a set of HAUPs. Initially, two variables, rTU and iTU, are
                set as 0. These indicate the total utility sum from the last rescan and the utility sum of
                transactions added after the last rescan, respectively (Line 1). The algorithm scans the
                transactional data and constructs the global PIHAUP-List by executing the Construct
                and Restructure procedures (Lines 2–3). After that, the total utility of scanned data is
                added to rTU (Line 4). Once the global list is constructed and restructured, it performs
                the Pattern expansion procedure, where pre-large and large patterns are extracted and
                                                                                  
                stored in the pattern tree (Line 5). When incremental data is appended, iTU is updated
                with the utility of the newly added transactions, and the algorithm checks a tight re-
                scan condition. (Lines 6–9). If it is satisfied, the current global list and pattern tree are
                discarded (Line 10). Then, similar to the initial data processing, the global list is recon-
                structed, and rTU is updated (Lines 11–13). The reconstructed global list is assigned
                to the Pattern expansion procedure, and the extracted pre-large and large patterns are
                inserted into the new pattern tree (Line 14). Since the re-scan process occurs, iTU and
                iDB are reset to 0 and null, respectively (Line 15). If the tight re-scan condition is not
                fulfilled, PIHAUPA bypasses the costly full pattern expansion. Instead, the algorithm
                focuses on updating the utility values within the existing pattern tree (Lines 16–26). In
                the process, it scans DB i .ForeachtransactionT k inDB i, the algorithm traverses all
                                                                                  
                available patterns in T k (Lines 17–18). For each pattern P, the traversal CurrentNode
                is reset to the root node of the PT (Line 20). Then, it checks whether the CurrentNode
                has a child corresponding to the item i p (Line 21). If this path exists (Lines 22–24), the
                algorithm adds the utility of the pattern P to the utility field of the corresponding child
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 19 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 19 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                node and then updates the CurrentNode to the TargetNode. Conversely, if no such
                child node exists (Line 25), the algorithm breaks the loop for the current pattern (Line
                26). This update mechanism preserves the existing order and structure of the tree. After
                this loop is completed, all values in PT reflect the inclusion of DB i. At this step, the
                HAUP set is extracted by traversing the updated PT and re-evaluating each node using
                the new total utility to calculate the upper                      
                                                                                  
                Algorithm 1 PIHAUPA                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Algorithm 2 PatternExpansion                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 threshold. Nodes whose updated utility are no less than the upper threshold are
                included in the finalHAUP (Line 27).                              
                                                                                  
                Algorithm 2 presents the PatternExpansion procedure of PIHAUPA. This procedure
                requires a conditional PIHAUP-List, a prefix pattern from the previous level, and the
                PIHAUP-List node corresponding to the prefix pattern as input parameters. The output
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 20 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 20 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                is a collection of pre-large and large patterns. The process begins by traversing the condi-
                tional PIHAUP-List in sequential order, appending each visited item to the prefix pattern
                (Lines 1–2). Then, the AU of the prefix pattern is calculated. If this value is no less than
                minUtil l, the pattern and the AU of the pattern are assigned to the result set (Lines 3–4).
                To determine whether further pattern expansion is feasible, the MAU of the current pat-
                tern is evaluated. The extension process continues if MAU is no less than minUtil l (Lines
                5–6). At this stage, nodes representing patterns appear after the currently visited pat-
                tern is examined, and a pattern combination procedure is performed. The results from
                this procedure are utilized to construct the conditional PIHAUP-List of the next pattern
                expansion level (Lines 9–13). If the number of the newly created conditional list exceeds
                                                                                  
                one, it is passed along with the prefix pattern and prefix pattern node into a recursive call
                of the PatternExpansion procedure for further pattern expansion (Lines 14–15). To facili-
                tate pattern extension with the next item, the most recently added item is removed from
                the prefix pattern (Line 16). Once the PatternExpansion process is complete, the final set
                of extracted large and pre-large patterns is returned (Line 17).  
                                                                                  
                Complexity analysis                                               
                This section analyzes the complexity of the proposed PIHAUPA algorithm by compar-
                ing it with PRE-HAUIMI [41]. The complexity of PIHAUPA is divided into the initial
                pattern tree construction phase and the incremental data update phase. This analysis
                focuses specifically on the complexity of the incremental data update phase under dif-
                                                                                  
                ferent re-scan conditions. For analysis, we define the total number of accumulated trans-
                actions to date as D, the number of newly inserted incremental transactions as d, the
                average number of items per transaction as avg(T), and the number of patterns stored
                in the pattern tree as PT . The complexity during incremental updates is divided into
                             | |                                                  
                two cases based on whether the re-scan condition is satisfied. The first case occurs when
                the re-scan condition is not satisfied, which is the most ideal case for both PIHAUPA
                and PRE-HAUIMI. In this case, the proposed PIHAUPA scans the newly inserted data d
                and updates the existing stored pattern information. This process requires complexity of
                O(d  avg(T)+PT ). On the other hand, PRE-HAUIMI scans the new transactions
                   ×      |  |                                                    
                d to construct the AUL-structures of d and merge them with the AUL-structures of D,
                which requires the complexity of O(d avg(T)). After that, PRE-HAUIMI performs
                                       ×                                          
                the pattern expansion procedure. Let | P exp| denote the number of expandable patterns
                visited during the pattern expansion. For each pattern extension, two AUL-structures
                are compared by traversing both lists, which incurs O(2(D+d)) complexity. Hence,
                the total complexity of pattern expansion is O(2(D+d) × | P exp| ), and the overall
                complexity of PRE-HAUIMI is O(d × avg(T)+2(D+d) × | P exp| ). Since the num-
                ber of expandable patterns is no less than the number of patterns in the pattern tree,
                | PT |≤ | P exp| . Thus, PIHAUPA achieves superior complexity than PRE-HAUIMI in
                this first case. Conversely, the second case occurs when the re-scan condition is satisfied.
                When this case occurs, both methodologies must discard the previously stored pattern
                information in the pattern tree or AUL-structures and perform pattern expansion and
                structure generation on the entire accumulated data D+d. This operation involves scan-
                ning the entire data D+d and incurs the full expansion cost 2(D+d) × | P exp| , result-
                ing in a very large cost of O(((D+d) avg(T))+2(D+d) P exp ). PRE-HAUIMI
                                      ×             × | |                         
                uses a loose boundary called TU(d) for newly inserted data. In contrast, PIHAUPA uses
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 21 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 21 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                a tight boundary based on MU(d), as mathematically proven in Lemma 2 of this paper.
                Thus, based on Lemma 2, the condition used by PRE-HAUIMI theoretically triggers the
                second case no less often than that of PIHAUPA. Consequently, by theoretically maxi-
                mizing the occurrence frequency of the first case and minimizing the occurrence of the
                second case, PIHAUPA achieves significant superiority in average complexity compared
                to PRE-HAUIMI.                                                    
                                                                                  
                Performance evaluation                                            
                Experimental environment and datasets                             
                In this section, the experimental environment is described for the performance evalu-
                                                                                  
                ation. To evaluate the proposed PIHAUPA, several state-of-the-art methods, PRE-
                HAUIMI [41], PIHUP [45], PIHUPM [49], UMPD [50], and PULM [51] are introduced.
                The proposed PIHAUPA is designed for a stream environment where data insertion
                occurs. It employs a tight re-scan condition for a more refined count of re-scan pro-
                cesses to efficiently identify results. PRE-HAUIMI is the state-of-the-art pre-large-based
                approach to extract HAUPs designed for incremental data environments, using a
                loose re-scan condition compared to PIHAUPA. Both PIHUP and PIHUPM represent
                state-of-the-art pre-large–based approaches for incremental data in high utility pat-
                tern analysis. PIHUP extracts HUPs in incremental environments by utilizing a TWU-
                based re-scan condition within a tree-based data structure. Since it was not originally
                designed to extract HAUPs, we modified its tree structures to incorporate AUUB
                                                                                  
                instead of TWU for the extraction of both pre-large and large patterns. Similarly, PIH-
                UPM integrates the pre-large concept employing the original re-scan condition for high
                utility pattern analysis and operates in the incremental environments. Both PIHUP and
                PIHUPM represent state-of-the-art pre-large–based approaches for incremental data.
                UMPD and PULM are the latest pre-large–based methods to handle stream environ-
                ments to analyze HUPs with data deletion and modification, respectively. Because
                these three methods were not designed for HAUPs, their list structures were adjusted
                by replacing RU with MRU for each entry and by incorporating MAU-based pruning
                strategies. In addition, PIHUP, PIHUPM, UMPD, and PULM were modified to divide the
                pattern utility by its length during the pattern extension in accordance with the defini-
                tion of HAUPs. Moreover, UMPD and PULM were optimized to consider data inser-
                                                                                  
                tion operations. These adjusted versions are referred to as PIHUP*, PIHUPM*, UMPD*,
                and PULM*. All implementations were devised in C++, and the performance evaluations
                were executed on an equal computing platform equipped with an Intel Core i7-6700 K
                CPU (4.00 GHz), OS (Windows 11), and RAM (32 GB).                 
                                                                                  
                Table 6 Information for real and synthetic datasets               
                Type      Dataset    # of Trans. # of Items Avg. Trans. Size      
                          Accidents  340,183    468       33.8                    
                          Chess      3,196      75        37                      
                Real      Mushroom   8,124      37        23                      
                          Pumsb      49,046     2,113     73.6                    
                          Bms-pos    515,597    1,656     6.5                     
                          Chainstore 1,112,949  46,086    7.2                     
                          T10I4D200K 200,000    100       10                      
                Synthetic –          –                                            
                          T10I4D1000K 1,000,000                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 22 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 22 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 Table 6 describes the characteristics of the datasets utilized in the evaluations
                described in the following sections. According to Table 6, the real datasets are config-
                ured of Accidents, Chess, Mushroom, Pumsb, which are categorized as dense datasets,
                and Bms-pos and Chainstore, which are classified as sparse datasets. The synthetic data-
                sets are comprised for a set of T10I4DxK datasets. The real datasets were sourced from
                the FIMI repository (http://fimi.ua.ac.be/data) and SPMF repository ( h t t p s : / / w w w . p h i l
                i p p e - f o u r n i e r - v i g e r . c o m / s p m f / i n d e x . p h p ? l i n k = d a t a s e t s . p h p), while synthetic datasets
                were generated with the IBM data generator. The scalability analysis was performed with
                an average transaction length of 10 and a fixed number of items at 100. In contrast, the
                total number of transactions was scaled up from 200 K to 1000 K at intervals of 200 K.
                                                                                  
                In the following evaluations, the part of the dataset excluding the original data, which is
                considered as a portion of OR, original data ratio, in the total DB, was treated as incre-
                mental data. Specifically, the number of occurrences for the data insertion was fixed at
                9 and 19 for the real and synthetic datasets, respectively, with each batch being of equal
                size. The rest of the dataset was partitioned into several incremental batches for sequen-
                tial insertion.                                                   
                                                                                  
                Analysis of insertion progress tests                              
                This section analyzes the performance of the proposed PIHAUPA against other compari-
                son methods, PRE-HAUIMI, PIHUPM*, PIHUP*, UMPD*, and PULM*, utilizing the real
                datasets described in Table 6. The results were measured under dataset-specific OR and
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 8 Results of runtime for insertion progress tests            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 23 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 23 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                thresholds. For the dense datasets (Accidents, Chess, Mushroom, Pumsb), OR, upper
                threshold, and lower threshold were (82%, 3%, 2.5%), (82%, 3.9%, 3.5%), (82%, 2%, 1.6%),
                and (82%, 4.35%, 4.3%), respectively. For the sparse datasets (Bms-pos, Chainstore),
                these were (95.5%, 0.5%, 0.3%) and (99.8%, 0.05%, 0.04%). Fig. 8 exhibits the runtime
                results for the insertion progress tests. The proposed PIHAUPA displays better runtime
                performance than the other comparison algorithms in all the results with real datasets
                for the insertion progress tests. PIHAUPA effectively manages the pattern expansion
                process using a tight re-scan condition. In contrast, the comparative algorithms rely on
                looser conditions: PRE-HAUIMI utilizes its loose condition, while PIHUPM*, UMPD*,
                and PULM* use the original re-scan condition, which is also not optimized for methods
                                                                                  
                that deal with average utility. Accordingly, it is observed that under the configured S u
                and S l, PIHAUPA performs re-scans in several parts of the nine-insertion process with
                the proposed tight re-scan condition. However, in these comparative methods under
                the same S u and S l, a re-scan process is performed every time a data insertion occurs.
                This is because the comparative methods employ much looser re-scan conditions, which
                leads them to perform re-scans during all nine data insertions under the same inser-
                tion settings. PIHUP* is a tree-based approach unlike other algorithms, and all results
                for the insertion progress tests exhibit that it requires the second most runtime after
                PRE-HAUIMI. For example, in Accidents, PIHAUPA shows that re-scan occurs in two
                cases out of nine data insertions. Moreover, when the re-scan occurs, PIHAUPA shows
                runtime results similar to UMPD* and PULM*. However, when the re-scan does not
                                                                                  
                occur, the difference in runtime results between the three methods is displayed as about
                80 s. This trend is similar to the results for the remaining real datasets. Notably, this
                efficiency was also observed in sparse datasets. For instance, in Chainstore, PIHAUPA
                avoided unnecessary re-scans in four cases out of nine data insertions, while compara-
                tive methods re-scanned every time. Whenever a re-scan did not occur, the proposed
                method was about 15 s faster than the comparative algorithms. Figs. 9 (a)–(d) show the
                memory usage results for the insertion progress tests. Similar to the results for run-
                time, the memory usage results between PIHAUPA, PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM*
                are similar when the re-scan occurs. However, when PIHAUPA avoided a re-scan, the
                memory usage in this case was less than 0.1 MB because there was no overhead for the
                pattern expansion process. As a result, the proposed PIHAUPA demonstrates its robust-
                ness across both dense and sparse datasets, showing superior runtime and competitive
                                                                                  
                memory usage compared to other comparative algorithms by utilizing an effective re-
                scan condition even as data insertions continue.                  
                                                                                  
                Analysis of threshold tests                                       
                In this section, the analysis of the performance evaluation results on real datasets, which
                include both dense and sparse characteristics, is introduced. The evaluations aim to
                analyze the runtime and memory usage performance of each algorithm by decreasing
                the upper threshold while keeping the lower threshold fixed for each real dataset. The
                upper threshold ratios were adjusted for each dataset characteristic. The upper thresh-
                old ranges were Accidents (4.0%–3.0%), Chess (4.1%–3.9%), Mushroom (2.8%–2.0%),
                Pumsb (4.45%–4.35%), Bms-pos (0.9%–0.5%), and Chainstore (0.09%–0.05%). Moreover,
                                                                                  
                the evaluations were conducted in the same experimental environment as in Sect. "Anal-
                ysis of insertion progress tests", and the OR, lower threshold, and number of data
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 24 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 24 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 9 Results of memory usage for insertion progress tests       
                                                                                  
                insertions were also set to the same as in the previous section. Fig. 10 shows the runtime
                results for the threshold tests. In these results, the proposed PIHAUPA always shows
                better runtime performance on real datasets, regardless of their density characteristics.
                Similar to the results described in Sect. "Analysis of insertion progress tests", PIHAUPA,
                PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM* have better runtime performance than the other two
                comparison algorithms. Moreover, PIHAUPA outperforms the comparison algorithms
                                                                                  
                by a minimum of more than 3 times on Accidents, Chess, and Pumsb, and more than
                2 times on Mushroom. This trend is also evident in sparse datasets. For instance, in
                Chainstore, PIHAUPA outperforms the comparison algorithms more than 2 times. The
                results on runtime performance show that the runtime difference between PIHAUPA,
                PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM* decreases as the upper threshold decreases. Neverthe-
                less, the overall runtime of the proposed approach is found to be better than other pre-
                large-based methods because the proposed approach utilizes a tight re-scan condition to
                efficiently perform the re-scan and pattern expansion processes. In Chess, at the upper
                threshold of 4.1%, PIHAUPA takes 5.58 s, PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM* take 55.3,
                24.5, and 23.7 s, and PRE-HAUIMI and PIHUP* exhibit runtime performance of 3648.7
                and 4590.9 s, respectively. In Chainstore, at the 0.05% upper threshold, PIHAUPA, PRE-
                                                                                  
                HAUIM, PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM* show 73.5, 218.7, 211.1, 200.4, and 186.1 s,
                while PIHUP* shows 650.7 s. Table 7 provides a granular numerical breakdown for the
                Accidents, detailing the exact runtime, memory usage, and re-scan counts. As shown
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 25 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 25 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 10 Results of runtime for threshold tests                    
                                                                                  
                Table 7 Detailed results of runtime and memory usage of accidents 
                Su\  Algorithm PIHAUPA PRE-HAUIMI PIHUPM* PIHUP** UMPD PULM*      
                     Runtime 68.327 8262.541 1702.158 13359.89 736.108 743.752    
                4.00% Memory 503.696 740.497 635.001 1386.156 614.997 619.425     
                     #Re-scans 0   9       9     9      9     9                   
                     Runtime 68.359 11170.175 1655.943 13499.487 734.954 743.518  
                3.75% Memory 503.696 759.994 635.001 1386.156 614.997 619.425     
                     #Re-scans 0   9       9     9      9     9                   
                     Runtime 154.004 15339.908 1658.034 13531.196 733.656 743.91  
                3.50% Memory 592.084 759.994 635.001 1386.156 614.997 619.425     
                     #Re-scans 1   9       9     9      9     9                   
                     Runtime 147.296 21257.762 1649.288 13471.739 733.17 744.84   
                3.25% Memory 583.335 759.994 635.001 1386.156 614.997 619.425     
                     #Re-scans 1   9       9     9      9     9                   
                     Runtime 226.586 29737.747 1656.01 13575.72 734.099 743.513   
                3.00% Memory 612.957 775.467 635.001 1386.156 614.997 619.425     
                     #Re-scans 2   9       9     9      9     9                   
                in Table 7, when S l=2.5% in Accidents, increasing S u from 3.0% to 4.0% reduces the
                number of re-scans in PIHAUPA, while the comparative methods exhibit no change.
                Under this threshold range, the comparison methods re-scan at every insertion due to
                their loose re-scan conditions, whereas the tight re-scan condition of PIHAUPA results
                in a small number of re-scans, between 0 and 2. Fig. 11 shows the memory usage results
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 26 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 26 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 11 Results of memory usage for threshold tests               
                for the threshold tests. For all the real datasets utilized in the experiments, the pro-
                                                                                  
                posed method outperforms PRE-HAUIMI and PIHUP* and shows competitive memory
                usage performance with PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM*. Since PIHUP* is a tree-based
                approach, it has the highest memory usage due to the memory usage overhead caused
                by the conditional tree generated during pattern expansion. On the other hand, the
                proposed method shows good runtime performance compared to the other algorithms
                while requiring competitive memory usage. In Pumsb, the proposed PIHAUPA requires
                82.7 MB at the 4.45% upper threshold, while PIHUPM*, UMPD*, and PULM* require
                108.7, 106.5, and 106.5 MB, and PRE-HAUIMI and PIHUP* require 185.9 MB and
                561.6 MB, respectively. A similar trend is observed in sparse datasets. In Bms-pos, at
                the 0.7% upper threshold, PIHAUPA used 104.3 MB, which is comparable to PIHUPM*
                (142.2 MB), UMPD* (119.1 MB), PULM* (118.6 MB), and PRE-HAUIMI (128.9 MB),
                                                                                  
                and significantly lower than PIHUP* (477.4 MB). As a result, PIHAUPA displays better
                runtime performance than other comparison approaches while requiring competitive
                memory usage, proving that it is efficient across datasets with diverse densities even in
                environments with varying thresholds.                             
                                                                                  
                Analysis of scalability tests                                     
                The scalability of the PIHAUPA algorithm is evaluated with a group of synthetic
                datasets, T10I4DxK, as summarized in Table 6. These datasets maintain an average
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 27 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 27 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 12 Results of scalability tests                              
                transaction length of 10 and a fixed number of items at 100 while varying the total
                                                                                  
                transaction count from 200 K to 1000 K. The scalability assessment examines the run-
                time and memory usage performance of PIHAUPA and other comparison methods as
                the transaction volume increases. Figs. 12 (a) and (b) illustrate the results of scalability
                tests regarding runtime and memory usage. In this experiment, OR is set at 91%, with
                S l and S u configured as 0.2% and 1.0%, respectively. Additionally, the number of data
                insertions is set as 19, ensuring the scale of each data insertion is equally set. Fig. 12
                (a) presents the runtime results, revealing that the performance gap between PIHAUPA
                and other algorithms becomes increasingly pronounced as the number of transactions
                increases. This tendency of the runtime results from PIHAUPA is derived from a tight
                re-scan condition, which effectively handles the data insertion from a stream environ-
                ment. For instance, when the transaction count is set as 1000 K, PIHAUPA achieves a
                                                                                  
                runtime of 61.6 s, outperforming PRE-HAUIMI, PIHUPM*, PIHUP*, UMPD*, and
                PULM* with 540.9, 821.9, 636.4, 250.8, and 247.4 s, respectively. Fig. 12 (b) illustrates the
                results of scalability tests regarding memory usage. PIHUP* exhibits the highest memory
                usage among the evaluated algorithms since the method is based on a tree structure.
                Meanwhile, PIHAUPA, PIHUPM*, PIHUP*, UMPD*, and PULM* demonstrate competi-
                tive memory usage. This tendency indicates that PIHAUPA not only outperforms run-
                time scalability but also maintains competitive memory usage scalability compared with
                other comparison methods.                                         
                                                                                  
                Analysis of sensitivity tests                                     
                This section analyzes the results of the sensitivity tests when both upper threshold
                S u and lower threshold S l vary. The proposed PIHAUPA was compared with PRE-
                                                                                  
                HAUIMI, which extracts the same HAUPs under pre-large conditions in incremental
                environments, and with PULM*, the most recent method among the comparison meth-
                ods. For each dataset, the threshold gap was maintained by decreasing both S u and
                S l equally, and the total runtime and peak memory usage were measured as shown in
                Figs. 13 and 14. The remaining experimental settings remain the same as in Sect. "Analy-
                sis of insertion progress tests". Overall, PIHAUPA achieves enhanced runtime and mem-
                ory usage performance compared to both PRE-HAUIMI and PULM*. In particular, as
                both S u and S l decrease, the runtime of all methods increases. This is because lower
                S u and S l lead each method to explore a larger search space during the pattern expan-
                sion procedure. Compared to PIHAUPA, the loose re-scan condition of PRE-HAUIMI
                causes re-scan operations to be invoked more frequently, thereby increasing its over-
                                                                                  
                head. When both thresholds decrease, the increase in runtime is smallest for PIHAUPA
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 28 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 28 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 13 Results of runtime for sensitivity tests                  
                                                                                  
                compared with PRE-HAUIMI and PULM*. For example, in the Accidents dataset, when
                the thresholds decrease from S u=3.1% and S l=2.6% to S u=2.0% and S l=2.4%, the run-
                time of the proposed PIHAUPA increases from 191.6 s to 276.1 s, which shows a rise of
                84.5 s. However, PULM* increases by 266.1 s, from 678.0 to 944.1 s, and PRE-HAUIMI
                rises by 8,109.8 s, from 24,709.0 to 32,818.9 s. This demonstrates that PIHAUPA exhib-
                its the lowest sensitivity to variations in the threshold parameters. In terms of memory
                usage, PIHAUPA shows better performance than PRE-HAUIMI and PULM*. In con-
                clusion, the proposed PIHAUPA demonstrates superior runtime with better memory
                usage across varying threshold settings with the best sensitivity in changes in both upper
                threshold S u and lower threshold S l.                            
                                                                                  
                Analysis of statistical tests                                     
                                                                                  
                This section presents an analysis of the accuracy test results performed by the pro-
                posed PIHAUPM and the comparison method, PRE-HAUIMI. To verify the accuracy
                of the proposed PIHAUPM, the test aims to assess whether the result patterns obtained
                by PIHAUPM exactly match those extracted by PRE-HAUIMI although the proposed
                method utilizes the newly proposed re-scan condition. However, relying on a single data-
                set for evaluation does not provide a reliable measure of accuracy. To ensure statistical
                reliability and satisfy the Central Limit Theorem, the experiment involves the generation
                of 30 sampled datasets for each entry listed in Table 6. To generate these 150 sampled
                datasets, the Swap Randomization technique, previously applied in prior studies [39, 49],
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 29 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 29 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 14 Results of memory usage for sensitivity tests             
                is utilized. The accuracy test results, denoted by the quantity of result patterns across
                all sampled datasets, are presented in Figs. 15 (a)–(e). The settings for OR, data inser-
                tion count, and S l are equal to those outlined in Sect. 4.4. S u is configured as 0.6%. The
                                                                                  
                sampled datasets are generated by means of random item swapping. As such, variations
                in result patterns occur depending on the dataset. Nevertheless, PIHAUPA consistently
                extracts the same number of patterns as PRE-HAUIMI. In addition, to further exam-
                ine the accuracy of the proposed PIHAUPA, the pattern sets produced by PIHAUPA
                and PRE-HAUIMI were arranged in lexicographic order. After that, their corresponding
                average utility values, rounded to three decimals, were compared. The results indicate
                that PIHAUPA extracted identical patterns with identical AU values as PRE-HAUIMI.
                Table 8 details the accuracy test results through mean, variance, and standard deviation.
                For every sampled dataset, both algorithms extracted the same results, thereby achiev-
                ing an accuracy of 100%. The analysis confirms that PIHAUPA maintains 100% accuracy
                in extracting result patterns without loss or duplication.        
                                                                                  
                Analysis of case study under concept drift tests                  
                                                                                  
                This section analyzes the results of the case study on the proposed PIHAUPA under
                concept drift tests. In diverse real-world environments, stream data exhibit concept
                drift, where the underlying characteristics of the data change over time. To evaluate
                the effectiveness of the proposed tight re-scan condition and pattern tree structures
                in complex stream environments, PIHAUPA is compared against PRE-HAUIMI. Both
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 30 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 30 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 15 Accuracy test results on sampled datasets                 
                                                                                  
                Table 8 Analysis of accuracy test results on sampled synthetic datasets
                Dataset   Algorithm Mean Variance Standard Deviation Accuracy     
                T10I4D200K PIHAUPA 147.367 1.895402 1.376736 100%                 
                          PRE-HAUIMI 147.367 1.895402 1.376736                    
                T10I4D400K PIHAUPA 146.567 1.564368 1.250747 100%                 
                          PRE-HAUIMI 146.567 1.564368 1.250747                    
                T10I4D600K PIHAUPA 146.933 1.512643 1.229896 100%                 
                          PRE-HAUIMI 146.933 1.512643 1.229896                    
                T10I4D800K PIHAUPA 146.4 1.075862 1.037238   100%                 
                          PRE-HAUIMI 146.4 1.075862 1.037238                      
                T10I4D1000K PIHAUPA 146.033 1.688506 1.299425 100%                
                          PRE-HAUIMI 146.033 1.688506 1.299425                    
                PIHAUPA and PRE-HAUIMI employ the pre-large concept and extract HAUPs. To
                properly reflect concept drift in data streams, both methods adopt a forgetting mecha-
                nism that removes the oldest portion of the data as new transactions arrive. In Acci-
                dents, a forgetting unit of 500 is applied, deleting the oldest 500 transactions whenever
                500 new transactions are added. For Chainstore, the forgetting unit is set to 1,000. Their
                total runtime and peak memory usage are measured across nine incremental updates
                where the portion of the original data, OR, gradually increases to assess scalability and
                                                                                  
                responsiveness. In Accidents, S l and S u are set to 3.5% and 3.45%, while in Chainstore
                they are set to 0.15% and 0.08%. Fig. 16 presents the runtime, and Fig. 17 illustrates the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 31 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 31 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 16 Results of runtime on the case study under concept drift when increasing original data ratio
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Fig. 17 Results of Memory usage on the case study under concept drift when increasing original data ratio
                                                                                  
                peak memory usage of both methods. Overall, PIHAUPA demonstrates enhanced per-
                formance of runtime and memory usage than PRE-HAUIMI where the portion of the
                original data varies. Since increasing the portion of the original data requires process-
                ing a greater data volume, the runtime and memory usage tend to rise in both meth-
                ods. Notably, PIHAUPA exhibits a much smaller runtime increase than PRE-HAUIMI.
                For instance, when OR increases from 60% to 80% in Chainstore, PIHAUPA shows a
                smaller increase of 13.7 s, from 47.1 to 60.8 s; by contrast, PRE-HAUIMI increases by
                37.8 s, from 81.6 to 119.4 s. In conclusion, PIHAUPA demonstrates superior runtime
                efficiency, lower memory usage, and enhanced scalability than PRE-HAUIMI under
                complex stream environments with concept drift. These results indicate that PIHAUPA
                offers improved applicability compared to the prior pre-large-based incremental
                                                                                  
                approach, PRE-HAUIMI.                                             
                                                                                  
                Discussion and future work                                        
                This section provides a discussion of the proposed PIHAUPA and outlines directions
                for future work. PIHAUPA efficiently extracts HAUPs from incremental data environ-
                ments by leveraging previously extracted pre-large and large patterns in its pattern tree
                structure with a tighter re-scan condition. This approach reduces unnecessary full data
                scans and redundant pattern expansion operations. The experimental results indicate
                that the proposed PIHAUPA exhibits enhanced runtime and scalability performance
                with improved sensitivity and applicability while maintaining competitive memory usage
                without any result pattern loss. At the same time, certain aspects of PIHAUPA remain as
                                                                                  
                directions for future work. First, extending the proposed approach with parallelization is
                a promising direction for large-scale stream processing, as shown in recent GPU-based
                studies for a decision support system utilizing modern multiprocessing units [53]. If the
                re-scan condition is met and pattern expansion is required, the expansion tasks from
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 32 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 32 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                the constructed global PIHAUP-List can be decomposed into independent subproblems,
                each starting from a different prefix node from the list. For each prefix, the transaction
                and utility information relevant to extending that prefix node is obtained by construct-
                ing the conditional list of the prefix. Then, the conditional list is assigned to an indi-
                vidual worker, which performs pattern expansion with the pruning strategy on its own
                local lists using the information from the conditional PIHAUP-List. Because the over-
                all search space is divided into mutually exclusive subspaces and the workers explore
                non-overlapping pattern sets, the partial results can be merged by a simple union with
                minimal synchronization overhead. This approach reduces the total processing time
                of PIHAUPA for large-scale stream environments. Moreover, the pruning strategy for
                                                                                  
                optimizing the search space and the re-scan condition could be enhanced. Introducing
                tighter upper bounds could further reduce the search space for more efficient pattern
                expansion, while an enhanced re-scan condition decreases unnecessary re-scan opera-
                tions and enhances overall efficiency.                            
                                                                                  
                Conclusion                                                        
                In this paper, we proposed an intelligent system called PIHAUPA that utilizes the pre-
                large concept in stream environments to analyze result patterns where pattern length
                is considered without candidate generation. The proposed method effectively processes
                data insertion within dynamic environments. By utilizing a tight re-scan condition
                superior to existing approaches, it significantly minimizes the frequency of the pattern
                                                                                  
                expansion process and full data re-scans. In addition, the proposed method utilizes the
                pre-large concept to analyze utility-driven patterns while accounting for pattern length.
                Consequently, it shows that the proposed method extracts insightful knowledge where
                various criteria are considered. In other words, the proposed method considers the
                quantity and profit of each pattern, as well as the pattern length, to extract refined infor-
                mation based on the management of large and pre-large patterns through the pattern
                tree. Comprehensive experiments on diverse datasets demonstrated that the proposed
                method has superior runtime and scalability performance compared to other compari-
                son methods with competitive memory usage. Moreover, accuracy test results proved
                that the proposed method extracts identical results as the existing method through a
                newly proposed re-scan condition. Furthermore, the proposed PIHAUPA demonstrated
                stable sensitivity across various threshold settings and demonstrated its applicability
                                                                                  
                through evaluation in concept drift environments. For our future work, we plan to inves-
                tigate parallel processing strategies of the proposed method to take advantage of mod-
                ern multiprocessor environments. In addition, we aim to refine the pruning strategy for
                optimizing the search space by developing a tighter upper bound and to advance the
                re-scan condition, which reduces re-scan operations and pattern expansions for efficient
                pattern analysis.                                                 
                Author contributions                                              
                D. Kim – Writing manuscript & revision, Development of methodology, Validations of the approach, S. Park – Writing
                manuscript & revision, Development of methodology, Validations of the approach, J. Park – Writing manuscript &
                revision, Development of methodology, Validations of the approach, H. Kim– Writing manuscript, Methodology
                update, Validations of the approach, S. Park – Writing manuscript, Validations of the approach, M. Cho –Methodology
                update, Validations of the approach, U. Yun- Writing draft and revision, Conceptualizations of the ideas of the proposed
                approach, Methodology update, Validations of the proposed and compared approaches, Funding acquisition, Project
                administration.                                                   
                Funding                                                           
                There is no funding.                                              
                                                                                  

=== PAGE 33 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 33 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                Data availability                                                 
                The data used in this paper are available at the FIMI repository (http://fimi.ua.ac.be/data/).
                                                                                  
                Declarations                                                      
                Ethics and consent to participate                                 
                Not applicable.                                                   
                Consent to publication                                            
                Not applicable.                                                   
                Competing interests                                               
                The authors declare no competing interests.                       
                Received: 22 July 2025 / Accepted: 9 December 2025                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                References                                                        
                1. Hu Z, You J, Yang Z, Li X, Xie H, Li Q, et al. A multi-hop graph reasoning network for knowledge-based VQA. ACM Trans
                  Intell Syst Technol. 2025;16(3):1–23. https://doi.org/10.1145/3724125.
                2. Liu Y, Yao Q, Li Y. Modeling n-ary relational knowledge bases with tensor decomposition. ACM Trans Intell Syst Technol.
                  2025;16(3):1–29. https://doi.org/10.1145/3709002.               
                3. Xuan HR, Li BH, Wu WL, Liu Y, Yin HZ. Knowledge enhancement and temporal aware for multi-behavior contrastive recom-
                  mendation. ACM Trans Intell Syst Technol. 2025;16(5):1–23. https://doi.org/10.1145/3735512.
                4. Le TH, Huang SC, Hoang QV, Lokaj Z, Lu ZH. Amalgamating knowledge for object detection in rainy weather conditions.
                  ACM Trans Intell Syst Technol. 2025;16(2):1–20. https://doi.org/10.1145/3712703.
                5. Zhou Y, Wang Z, Jiang Y, Ma B, Wang R, Liu Y, et al. AEKG4APT: an AI-enhanced knowledge graph for advanced persistent
                  threats with large language model analysis. ACM Trans Intell Syst Technol. 2025. https://doi.org/10.1145/3735645.
                6. Zhang Z, Huang J. Fast frequent patterns mining by multiple sampling with tight guarantee under bayesian statistics. IEEE
                  Trans Cybern. 2023;53(5):2993–3006.                             
                7. Truong T, Duong H, Le B, Fournier-Viger P, Yun U. Frequent high minimum average utility sequence mining with con-
                  straints in dynamic databases using efficient pruning strategies. Appl Intell. 2022;52(6):6106–28.
                8. Wu Y, Meng Y, Li Y, Guo L, Zhu X, Fournier-Viger P, et al. COPP-Miner: top-k contrast order-preserving pattern mining for
                  time series classification. IEEE Trans Knowl Data Eng. 2024;36(6):2372–87.
                9. Wu Y, Tian S, Li Y, Liu J, Li J, Wang W, et al. OIP-Miner: one-off incremental sequential pattern mining with forgetting factor.
                  Sci China Inf Sci. 2025;68(10):209101. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-024-4496-9.
                10. Truong T, Duong H, Le B, Fournier-Viger P, Yun U. Mining interesting sequences with low average cost and high average
                  utility. Appl Intell. 2022;52(7):7136–57.                       
                11. Wu Y, Lei R, Li Y, Guo L, Wu X. HAOP-Miner: self-adaptive high-average utility one-off sequential pattern mining. Expert Syst
                  Appl. 2021;184:115449.                                          
                12. Kumar MJK, Rana D. HARUIM: high average recent utility itemset mining. Int J Data Min Model Manage. 2024;16(1):66–100.
                13. Li G, Shang T, Zhang Y. Efficient mining high average-utility itemsets with effective pruning strategies and novel list struc-
                  ture. Appl Intell. 2023;53(5):6099–118.                         
                14. Sethi KK, Ramesh D. High average-utility itemset mining with multiple minimum utility threshold: a generalized approach.
                  Eng Appl Artif Intell. 2020;96:103933.                          
                15. Nguyen TDD, Tung NT, Pham T, Nguyen LTT. Parallel approaches to extract multi-level high utility itemsets from hierarchi-
                  cal transaction databases. Knowl Based Syst. 2023;276:110733.   
                16. Tung NT, Nguyen TDD, Nguyen LTT, Vo B. An efficient method for mining high-utility itemsets from unstable negative
                  profit databases. Expert Syst Appl. 2024;237:121489.            
                17. Vo B, Le T-P, Hong T-P, Le B, Jung JJ. An efficient approach for mining frequent item sets with transaction deletion opera-
                  tion. Int Arab J Inf Technol. 2016;13(5):595–602.               
                18. Jaysawal BP, Huang J-W. SOHUPDS+: an efficient one-phase algorithm for mining high utility patterns over a data stream.
                  ACM Trans Knowl Discovery Data. 2025;19(1):1–16. https://doi.org/10.1145/3702645.
                19. Huynh B, Tung NT, Nguyen TDD, Trinh C, Snasel V, Nguyen L. New approaches for mining high utility itemsets with mul-
                  tiple utility thresholds. Appl Intell. 2024;54(1):767–90.       
                20. Tseng VS, Wu C-W, Shie B-E, Yu PS. UP-Growth: an efficient algorithm for high utility itemset mining, In Proceedings of the
                  16th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD ’10), pp. 253–262, 2010.
                21. Thurachon W, Kreesuradej W. Incremental association rule mining with a fast incremental updating frequent pattern
                  growth algorithm. IEEE Access. 2021;9:55726–41.                 
                22. Liu M, Qu J. Mining high utility itemsets without candidate generation, In Proceedings of the 21st ACM International
                  Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM ’12), pp. 55–64, 2012.
                23. Yun U, Ryang H, Lee G, Fujita H. An efficient algorithm for mining high utility patterns from incremental databases with
                  one database scan. Knowl Based Syst. 2017;124:188–206.          
                24. Yun U, Nam H, Lee G, Yoon E. Efficient approach for incremental high utility pattern mining with indexed list structure.
                  Future Gener Comput Syst. 2019;95:221–39.                       
                25. Lee C, Kim H, Cho M, Kim H, Vo B, Lin JC-W, et al. Incremental top-k high utility pattern mining and analyzing over the
                  entire accumulated dynamic database. IEEE Access. 2024;12:77605–20.
                26. Kim S, Kim H, Cho M, Kim H, Vo B, Lin JC-W, et al. Efficient approach for mining high-utility patterns on incremental data-
                  bases with dynamic profits. Knowl Based Syst. 2023;282:111060.  

=== PAGE 34 ===
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Kim et al. Journal of Big Data (2026) 13:13                 Page 34 of 34 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                27. Yun U, Kim H, Kim H, Park S. Efficient fuzzy-based high utility pattern computing and analyzing approach with temporal
                  properties. Appl Soft Comput. 2025;172:112902. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2025.112902.
                28. Nam H, Yun U, Yoon E, Lin JC-W. Efficient approach of recent high utility stream pattern mining with indexed list structure
                  and pruning strategy considering arrival times of transactions. Inf Sci. 2020;529:1–27.
                29. Baek Y, Yun U, Kim H, Nam H, Kim H, Lin JC-W, et al. Rhups: mining recent high utility patterns with sliding window–based
                  arrival time control over data streams. ACM Trans Intell Syst Technol. 2021;12(2):1–27. https://doi.org/10.1145/3430767.
                30. Kim H, Yun U, Baek Y, Kim H, Nam H, Lin JC-W, et al. Damped sliding based utility oriented pattern mining over stream data.
                  Knowl Based Syst. 2021;213:106653.                              
                31. Lin JC-W, Li T, Fournier-Viger P, Hong T-P, Zhan J, Voznak M. An efficient algorithm to mine high average-utility itemsets.
                  Adv Eng Inform. 2016;30(2):233–43.                              
                32. Hong T-P, Lee C-H, Wang S-L. Effective utility mining with the measure of average utility. Expert Syst Appl.
                  2011;38(7):8259–65.                                             
                33. Yun U, Kim D. Mining of high average-utility itemsets using novel list structure and pruning strategy. Future Gener Com-
                  put Syst. 2017;68:346–60.                                       
                34. Kim H, Yun U, Baek Y, Kim J, Vo B, Yoon E, Fujita H. Efficient list based mining of high average utility patterns with maximum
                  average pruning strategies. Inf Sci. 2021;543:85–105.           
                35. Wu JM-T, Lin JC-W, Pirouz M, Fournier-Viger P. TUB-HAUPM: tighter upper bound for mining high Average-Utility patterns.
                  IEEE Access. 2018;6:18655–69.                                   
                36. Kim D, Yun U. Efficient algorithm for mining high average-utility itemsets in incremental transaction databases. Appl Intell.
                  2017;47(1):114–31.                                              
                37. Kim J, Yun U, Yoon E, Lin JC-W, Fournier-Viger P. One scan based high average-utility pattern mining in static and dynamic
                  databases. Future Gener Comput Syst. 2020;111:143–58.           
                38. Lee C, Ryu T, Kim H, Kim H, Vo B, Lin JC-W, et al. Efficient approach of sliding window-based high average-utility pattern
                  mining with list structures. Knowledge-Based Syst. 2022;256:109702.
                39. Kim H, Kim H, Cho M, Vo B, Lin JC-W, Fujita H, et al. Efficient approach of high average utility pattern mining with indexed
                  list-based structure in dynamic environments. Inf Sci. 2024;657:119924.
                40. Wu JM-T, Teng Q, Lin JC-W, Yun U, Chen H-C. Updating high average-utility itemsets with pre-large concept. J Intell Fuzzy
                  Syst. 2020;38(5):5831–40.                                       
                41. Lin JC-W, Pirouz M, Djenouri Y, Cheng C-F, Ahmed U. Incrementally updating the high average-utility patterns with pre-
                  large concept. Appl Intell. 2020;50(11):3788–807.               
                42. Wu JM-T, Teng Q, Tayeb S, Lin JC-W. Dynamic maintenance model for high average-utility pattern mining with deletion
                  operation. Appl Intell. 2022;52(15):17012–25.                   
                43. Wu JM-T, Teng Q, Lin JC-W, Fournier-Viger P, Cheng C-F. Maintenance of Prelarge High Average-Utility Patterns in Incre-
                  mental Databases. In: Trends in Artificial Intelligence Theory and Applications. Artificial Intelligence Practices. 2020. p.
                  884–95.                                                         
                44. Lin C-W, Hong T-P, Lan G-C, Wong J-W, Lin W-Y. Incrementally mining high utility patterns based on pre-large concept.
                  Appl Intell. 2014;40(2):343–57.                                 
                45. Lee J, Yun U, Lee G, Yoon E. Efficient incremental high utility pattern mining based on pre-large concept. Eng Appl Artif
                  Intell. 2017;72:111–23.                                         
                46. Yun U, Nam H, Kim J, Kim H, Baek Y, Lee J, et al. Efficient transaction deleting approach of pre-large based high utility pat-
                  tern mining in dynamic databases. Future Gener Comput Syst. 2020;103:58–78.
                47. Lin C-W, Hong T-P, Lan G-C, Wong J-W, Lin W-Y. Efficient updating of discovered high-utility itemsets for transaction dele-
                  tion in dynamic databases. Adv Eng Inform. 2015;29(1):16–27.    
                48. Yun U, Kim H, Ryu T, Baek Y, Nam H, Lee J, et al. Prelarge-based utility-oriented data analytics for transaction modifications
                  in internet of things. IEEE Internet Things J. 2021;8(24):17333–44.
                49. Kim H, Lee C, Ryu T, Kim H, Kim S, Vo B, et al. Pre-large based high utility pattern mining for transaction insertions in incre-
                  mental database. Knowledge-Based Syst. 2023;268:110478.         
                50. Kim D, Park S, Kim H, Lee C, Kim H, Cho M, et al. Pre-eminent utility driven data analytics based on prelarge patterns for
                  dynamic transaction deletion in IoT environments. IEEE Internet Things J. 2025;12(13):24470–89. h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 1 0 9 / J i
                  o t . 2 0 2 5 . 3 5 5 5 2 7 8 .                                 
                51. Yun U, Kim H, Cho M, Ryu T, Park S, Kim D, et al. Utility-driven data analytics algorithm for transaction modifications using
                  pre-large concept with single database scan. IEEE Trans Big Data. 2025. https://doi.org/10.1109/Tbdata.2025.3556615.
                52. Yan H, Li F, Hsieh M-C, Wu JM-T. High-utility sequential pattern mining in incremental database. J Supercomputing.
                  2024;81:81.                                                     
                53. Rahimi I. A decision support system for open-pit mining optimisation with dynamic uncertainty and GPU-based parallel
                  repair approach. Expert Syst Appl. 2026;298:129544. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2025.129544.
                Publisher’s note                                                  
                Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.